---
header-includes:
- \usepackage{setspace}
- \doublespacing
fontsize: 11pt

title: Costs of the Attention Economy
date: 3 May 2021
author: Robert Detjens

bibliography: hw2.bib
csl: apa.csl
---

## Introduction

This paper will focus on the effects the Attention Economy on male college students, as this is my demographic and as
such I can contribute and apply this to my own experience. This paper will use Virtue Theory to evaluate the ethical
status of the attention economy, and why it is unethical and will not produce a happier society.

## What is the Attention Economy?

As the Internet has developed, attention has become one of the main currencies used with regard to users interacting
with a site or app. Sites have implemented various techniques to attract and keep a user's attention to their service,
be it through recommended content, rewards, or other methods. Advertising is the predominant monetization strategy of
the internet [@mozilla], and if a site can keep a user's attention, they can be served more ads and the site can earn
more money. This "gameification" of capturing and holding attention has led apps and sites to implement certain design
trends like unskippable ads, catchy animations, auto-playing videos, achievements, and recommended rabbit-holes
[@nielsen].

Social media companies enact another practice termed "filter bubbles" by @practical wherein the algorithm supplies
known-engaging content to a user to keep them on the site. For example, on Youtube, its video recommendation algorithm
has taken users into a conspiracy wormhole, as "a user who watches one factual and informative video about astronomy
and then goes on with their day is less advantageous [to Youtube] than a user who watches fifteen flat-earth conspiracy
videos in a row." [@singularity]. This can influence peoples' decisions, as these companies control the "menu" from
which users pick content from. The companies making these choices are motivated by increasing advertising revenue, not
so much presenting users with a variety of choices, some of which may cause the user to stop using the service
[@singularity].

Infinite scrolling is yet another tactic used, allowing users to continuously scroll down through their feed without
having to stop for pagination. This was deliberately designed to be addicting, as it doesn't let the brain "catch up
with impulses" [@bbc].

These factors combine to create an ecosystem that keeps users on social media for 5 to 6 years over one's lifetime
[@constant]. Users who have tried to stop using social media have experienced withdrawal-like symptoms and likening the
addictiveness to that of a slot machine [@bbc].

## Is this ethical?

One can examine whether attention-exploitative practices will lead to a better society by applying the the three forms
of virtue theory to the decision-maker: $ar\hat{e}te$ (excellence or virtue), $phronesis$ (practical or moral wisdom)
and $eudaimonia$ (happiness) [@stanford].

$Ar\hat{e}te$ requires an individual to act according to a virtue because following the virtue is the right thing to
do. Intentionally adding addictive behavior, e.g. infinite scrolling, to a platform to further user attention capture
does not uphold the virtue of integrity.

$Phronesis$ is the wisdom to know what actions to take in order to act in accordance with a virtue. Some social media
companies, e.g. Youtube, have admitted that their algorithms may not be recommending the best things and have tweaked
them in an attempt to remedy the problem [@singularity]. However, these are reactive responses, not proactive. These
companies have demonstrated that they are aware of the problems in their algorithms, but make minimal changes unless
called out. This demonstrates that they do have the wisdom to know better, but choose not to act on it, violating
$phronesis$.

$Eudaimonia$ originates from Aristotle and describes that the "good life" is one following the virtues [@stanford].
Social media platforms do not encourage this life, as the `Like` button has consciously contributed to insecurity and
depression [@bbc].

As the attention economy does not follow all three of the components of virtue theory, it is unethical and will not
produce a more fulfilled society.

$\pagebreak$

## References

::: {#refs}
:::
