---
header-includes:
- \usepackage{setspace}
- \doublespacing
fontsize: 11pt

title: Keeping Section 230 For A Healthier Internet
date: 17 May 2020
author: Robert Detjens

bibliography: hw3.bib
csl: apa.csl
---

> No provider or user of an interactive computer service shall be treated as the publisher or speaker of any
> information provided by another information content provider.

## Introduction

The Internet is a diverse and varied place. From cat videos to memes to wikis containing the sum total of the human
experience, the web is filled with user-generated content. For example, Youtube receives 500 hours of new video per
minute [@youtube_stats]. Under the current Section 230 guidelines, Youtube is not legally responsible for the content
of these videos. Without Section 230, Youtube would either need to not moderate its content at all, or remove all
content that has the slightest possibility of being offensive for fear of being sued [@keep_230].

Section 230 has defined the internet as we know it. Sites that distribute user-generated content are not responsible
for content that users of the service upload. Each user of e.g. Youtube is their own publisher, and as such the
provider (Youtube proper) cannot be sued because of content that a user posts. Without this, the internet would not
have become as large or as diverse as it has, and getting rid of the protections that Section 230 offers would spell
disaster.

$\pagebreak$

## Impacts of keeping Section 230

While Section 230 has protected sites from user-created content, critics have argued that the government should do more
to crack down on certain types of content. Some proponents of removing Section 230 immunity want to add more exceptions
for unlawful content. The Department of Justice put out a recommendation on how to change Section 230, including
suggested exceptions for if platforms "have knowledge that unlawful conduct is taking place" or "show reckless
disregard for how [their] users are behaving" [@justice_dept]. Republicans have voiced concerns over Big Tech's
possible abuse of the 'good faith removal' clause of Section 230 to perform censorship against opposing political
beliefs, citing Twitter's warnings and subsequent ban of Donald Trump's Twitter account. Section 230 also applies to
all speech, including that which others may deem harmful, such as extremist or sexually exploitative; however most
sites have mechanisms in place to take down this content even though it is not legally required [@26_words, p.
211-212].

Repealing Section 230 entirely will most likely serve to stifle social media and other sites that serve user-generated
content. Without the legal immunity, providers will be forced to review all content posted, removing anything that may
result in a legal case. While large tech giants may be large enough to eat the costs of reviewing all content and
deciding if it is 'valid', smaller companies and startups may not be able to foot the costs [@keep_230].

Looking into the future and assuming Section 230 is fully repealed, I forsee that the Internet will be much like a
newspaper -- heavily curated and moderated, without much interaction with the reader. Any interaction would have to be
checked for any possible legal grey area before being shown on the site, which would lead many sites to not bother with
the effort and only show/publish content that they created and can validate would not get them into trouble. This
content may also be much more highly moderated, as sites may be more hesitant to show any content that may anger
viewers. Most social media platforms would disappear, as unless backed by a massive tech company willing to sink
manpower or computing time into screening all posts, they may be opening themselves up to legal action by allowing
users to use social media and share their thoughts. Big tech companies like Facebook or Google may have the time to
develop screening AIs or employ enough people to screen posts to their sites, but smaller startups will not and any
possible competitors will be forced out of the race before they even started.

Examining the two most common objections according to @keep_230 -- *Section 230 allows users to post objectionable
content* and *Section 230 allows sites to silence any opinions that they do not agree with* -- with regard to future
impacts shows that neither option is solved by repealing Section 230. Without the immunity in place and the option to
remove content deemed objectionable in 'good faith', sites would be forced to either go completely hands-off and not
remove any content lest they be deemed a publisher, or moderate every post and remove any controversial content
[@keep_230].

## Which is more ethical?

Examining the outcomes of Section 230 under the ethical theory of Utilitarianism, one can see that keeping Section 230
is the more ethical choice.

Under utilitarianism, an action is "good" if it benefits the whole of society and causes a net increase utility. Good
actions are ones where the consequences benefit the most people the most for the longest. Utilitarianism focuses on the
consequences of the action, rather than the motivation.

Keeping Section 230 benefits the most people. This outcome causes the largest increase in utility verses repealing.
Again examining the two common objections from @keep_230, utilitarianism shows that repealing Section 230 has have
negative ethical impacts. If sites are forced to moderate with an extremely heavy hand, all dissenting opinions would
be removed for fear of legal action from disgruntled parties, verses with Section 230 where the platform may be
removing one side of content or otherwise extremist content. This would restrict the free speech of more people,
resulting in a net loss of utility. The opposite reaction to the loss of Section 230 immunity -- not moderating any
content for fear of becoming a publisher -- would open the floodgates for unwanted content like spam, gore, or other
objectionable content. This results in a loss of quality for the platform and the dilution of the actual content of the
site, a net loss of utility as this affects all users of the platform. These users want to see the real posts, but can
no longer do so without also seeing the as-mentioned objectionable content.

## Conclusion

As stated above, repealing Section 230 will result in a worse Internet. Content distributors, like social media
platforms, would be forced to one of two extremes with the loss of Section 230 immunity. Either of these options
results in a loss of utility for the whole, which is unethical according to the application of Utilitarian ethics. In
order for the internet to continue functioning as it is today, Section 230 needs to stay.

$\pagebreak$

## References

::: {#refs}
:::
